Schlomo Shoham is the rarest of men.
Raised in a strict Jewish tradition,
he knew from an early age that every one of us
is in direct contact with spirit.
In his early 30s he was appointed to
a judge's seat in Israel,
imbuing him with extraordinary levels of power
over the lives of others.
Since then, his life's journey
has been in search of authentic power,
and he now imparts his knowledge to other judges,
and through his appointment to
the Parliamentary Committee for Future Generations.
We met with him in Jerusalem.
(inspirational music)
Here's a man that has been very highly trained
and developed with the intellect as an attorney,
as a judge,
and now serving in the Knesset.
And, at the same time, you're also noted for
being a highly spiritual man.
Now, this is an anomaly for me
because I don't think I've ever met
a conscious politician. (laughs)
So why don't we start with you,
and I assume you didn't pop out this way,
so where was the marriage of consciousness
and what you do for a living?
I think the marriage of consciousness
and spirituality were when I was born.
I grew up in a religious family,
and in this religious family...
We were Hasidic family,
which is more spiritual, religious, orthodox family.
I have to thank God and thank my family
that they brought me this way,
because, although I left doing the Mitzvot,
doing the rules of the Judaism,
teach as I was young,
all my life were the questions
in dealing with the dilemmas of
who is God, what God wants from us,
and the feeling that every cell,
each and every cell in my body,
is a part of God,
and God is not separate from me
and from you and from the whole world,
and it's only our linear brain that
creates the differentiation between us and God,
or creates a separation between our energies.
This was thing that,
things that I was brought up with,
and they were part of my feelings, my emotions, all my life.
So this is a place that I began from.
I can see that more consciously
I came to this world that is called spiritual world,
I don't like the word spiritualism, I don't think.
Yes, I understand.
It's a word that has far too many...
In a way, I prefer to speak about,
be more aware of, of this stuff that we are not...
We're not more aware that we're not captive of our senses,
that there are a lot of things beyond our senses.
I came to see one as stronger when I was a judge.
You know, when I was the youngest judge in Israel
when I was appointed, I was 34 years old,
and, you know, the ego loves it very much.
You sit up there and you have a lot of control,
and people, power,
when you tell a joke, everybody's laughing, 'cause--
Because they have to?
They have to.
(Regina laughing)
Tomorrow morning they're going to be
in a trial in front of you.
And there go, ego loves it.
And it took me some, I think, year or two
until I was asking myself, "What are you doing there?"
Because you're--
"And why are you sending people to jail all your life?"
It's kind of a,
it's not easy to be,
especially in Israel, you know,
a judge in Israel has a lot, a lot of authorities,
and I was the only judge in a city,
not an easy city in Israel, in Ashdod.
Many, many criminals, murderers, you know,
drug dealers, everything.
And it was amazing, there was...
You've got it in the anything.
I was sitting there and asked myself,
"Why me, Schlomo Shoham, is doing it?
"What is my lesson from this,
"and how I can be a real human being
"and a human judge,"
things that sometimes doesn't go together.
And it was amazing, this, what happened there.
I came by chance,
but there is not any chance in the world, as you know,
to be aware more to the spiritual world,
to by energetics, to authentic medicine,
and I began to learn psychotherapy,
alternative psychotherapy meditations,
in those years and, what I can say,
that, more and more, I was aware of
what is my lesson in being a judge.
You know, sometimes you can not
run a society without judging people,
but what it means to Schlomo Shoham,
that he is judging all the time,
and you know judgments are killing.
Judging is killing.
There is a story about an old man that has a horse.
It's a very nice story.
It's a little, I think, esoteric.
He was very poor but he has one horse,
and this horse was a unique horse, very nice,
and everybody want to buy this horse.
And he said, "It's not a horse, it's a friend,
"and how can you sell a friend?
"I am not selling it."
And then the king came to this guy and said,
"Listen, I'll pay you the whole you house, gold.
Just give me the horse."
And he said, "It's not a horse, it's a friend,
"and how can you sell a friend?"
And he didn't sell.
After some days, the horse ran away.
So all the people from the village came to this old man,
say, "You stupid old man.
"You could have sell the horse
"and you could have been a very, very rich man.
"Now you don't have a horse and you don't have money.
"This horse is not a blessing, it's a curse."
And he said, "You can not judge.
"All that you can say, that there was a horse,
"and that the horse ran away.
"This is the only thing you can say."
After some days, the horse came back from the wilderness,
and he came back with another 12 very nice horses with him.
A little training and they worth a lot of money.
So the people from the village gathered again
and said, "Ok, Old Man, you were right.
"This horse is not a curse, it's a blessing."
So what he said to them?
"Again, you are going too far.
"You can not say anything about
"if it's a curse or it's a blessing.
"Life comes in fragments.
"So the only thing that you can say,
"that there was a horse, now there's no horses,
"now there are 12 horses."
When you read the page in a book,
you can not judge the whole book.
When you read a letter in a page,
you can not judge the whole page.
And what we are doing, all the time we are judging.
And judgments is something that we are stuck in it.
All the time you are stuck.
And judging is something that gives us
an illusion of attachment.
But it's not really living.
If you will look in your life and see
what were the happiest moments in your life,
judging was not there.
It was kind of letting go, abandons,
a play that you say, "Ok, I am one with the universe,
"one with God, one with the trees, one with the animals."
So, and the story goes on.
But what d-, so what did you learn?
About yourself, this is getting juicy.
Yes. (stammers)
(Regina laughs)
The story goes on and then the story is like the...
His son was training the horses,
and he fallen and he broke his leg,
and all the people from the c-
said, "This horse is a curse."
He said, "You can not judge,"
and etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
Then there was a war and they took all the kids to the war,
but his son was handicapped so they didn't take his son.
So what I learned in my life,
that first, those minutes, they were like the...
worst crisis in my life.
The places that I thought, it can not be worse,
they were really, I can say,
the biggest lessons that I get in my life.
And I realized to learn that everything that comes in life,
it's kind of a picture that I have to learn from this,
and if I go beyond this very minute,
a little bit take out myself outside of the mud,
I see life rich, happy, and in a powerful situation,
from a powerful situation that is
not captive of this drama of this very minute,
of this sadness or horrible things or whatever it is.
This what I learned from this,
and this what I learned also from being a judge,
because I learned that judging people,
first of all, is very painful.
When I was judge, I was not aware
to how much painful it is.
Because there is, you know, a very, very...
kind of, you know, in the courtroom,
there are separation between the judge
and the accused ones and the people--
You always sit higher.
Sit, always sit higher,
you feel like, you know, you're almost God,
everybody's bowing to you.
After some days, you believe that you are God.
Everybody says, "Yes, your Honor, no, your Honor,"
and it's like, and when you really realize
that it's not like this, then you really understands...
When you go beyond the ego then, then I re-
When I went beyond the ego, the ego--
The ego, yes.
Sometimes I realize,
it was not easy to do it all the time,
you know the ego is, has it's own way of living,
but I realized how much painful it is,
and how much painful is to send,
I think, in my life, thousand people to jail.
It-it's really horrible,
it's something that I have to go all my life
and do other things to, in a way, repair it,
to create a balance,
because it's really painful.
So this was the first thing that I learned
from, let's say, the spiritual world,
of being aware of what's going on there.
And then I did something that judges usually don't do,
I quit.
I left being a judge and I went to the parliament,
to the Israeli parliament.
In the beginning I was legal advisor of the
Constitution and Law Committee,
and then I was, I was appointed to be
the Commissioner for Future Generations.
The first commissioner in Israel,
which is a great thing to do because I...
First of all, it's a very creative place,
it's a new position,
very powerful with a lot of authorities,
and judges usually judge things that happened in the past.
And judges usually deal with the traumas of the past.
And although sometime there is no other alternative,
we have to send people to jail,
you don't really cure people.
You don't really repair things,
you don't really bring love to the world.
Usually what you do,
the main thing that you do is incapacitation.
You take people, so the times that they're in jail,
they don't hit on other people, or don't murder,
or don't rape, or these kind of things.
And you,
if I may just interject something at this point.
You, after you began understanding things in this way,
about judgment,
had a very profound effect on some individuals,
and one of them is named Meir,
and we've talked with Meir as well,
and he said, trough an interesting series of events,
not by accident, no accidents in the world,
that he had met you.
And am I clear in understanding
you were still a judge at this time,
or was, were you...
No, when he met me first, I was still a judge.
Yes.
What happened, that I began to learn
and I began to be a meditation teacher,
and a bioenergetic therapist.
This was my way of learning,
and it was a strange combination,
to be a judge in the morning--
A judge and a--
a meditation teacher
at night.
meditation te-
It's wonderful.
It's really amazing.
And I know that the world brought me the place
I have to make a tikun, we say it in Hebrew,
a kind of a repair, kind of how healing
for the places,
Yes.
for the wounded places in
the criminals bodies and souls,
and in my body and soul.
So it's like this kind of repairing, of healing,
brought us together, and maybe this
How did this happen?
is only one of the stories, but it's like, uh,
it's one of them.
But it's,
it was such a beautiful story.
Meir was on his way to a drug party in that scene,
and I was in another place leading meditation camp,
and, by chance, there's no,
nothing by accident, as you said.
But he was, he stopped there,
and, don't remember,
but I think he needed water or something,
with friends or something, and he came.
And somebody told him, "Listen,
"there is a crazy judge who is teaching meditation."
He knew what a judge is,
he didn't know nothing about what is meditation.
But he said he was curious and he came inside.
And a great thing happened to him and to me.
I go in party and I look.
I want to see is a drink, coffee.
I look, one man, little man, and uh...
tell me, "Excuse me, come here.
"Yes, what you want?"
Tell me, "You know me?"
But I not remember.
Tell me, "I am Shin-Shin, I am Schlomo Shoham.
"I am a judge, judge."
Judge, yes.
Judge.
"And I know you.
"I know you.
"All the country know you, but I know you, uh,
"before you very, very problem."
"Ok, what you want," I tell him.
"I want to bust but five minute."
If you want five minute talk to me,
ok, five minute, no problem.
Is tell me, "You know what is it, meditation?"
Meditation?
And you're at a party where you have
hash and ecstasy and everything else--
Yeah, he tell me meditation--
And he's at this party and he comes up to you?
Yeah.
Yeah. (giggles)
He's tell me meditation, what is (unintelligible).
I look, it's all (speaks Hebrew) white.
All the men, white.
I tell who, crazy.
What is it?
Tell me, "No, no problem.
"Come in me, five minute meditation,
"and after, go in party, go, no problem."
I am man like change.
Change?
Change.
I like change, I like all the, everything, everything,
I want to look, ok, no problem.
You want to experience everything?
Yes.
Yes, everything.
And I tell, "Ok.
"Ok, I come, five minute."
Look what is meditation.
I am listen but what is meditation, I want to look.
Ok, I come in Schlomo Shoham.
It's a group telling, tell me, "Sit."
I am sit, a meditation,
and after maybe five, six minute,
here, it's no problem.
Here, no, I'm like, I want to (speaks Hebrew).
What is he saying?
I want to cry.
To cry.
I don't know what is it, crying, crying.
I don't know what is cry, crying.
You weren't accustomed to crying?
No, maybe if I am a...
A baby.
Maybe, I don't remember.
Maybe, if I am a (speaks Hebrew)
A baby.
But not cry, a man not crying.
Especially a tough man. (laughs)
Yes, and I don't know what is,
what's happened me.
What's happen?
I want to cry.
I want to go, it's tell me maybe Shin-Shin,
it's look at me.
It's telling, "Stop, one minute, stop."
And it's touch me, here,
and I'm in all the group, the magan,
all the group...
The circle.
Circle?
Yeah, circle.
And I am here--
In the middle?
Yes.
And I crying too much,
and I don't know what am saying me.
Am here like this, no, no see me.
Holding a...
Ok, that's all, I am finish this meditation,
I tell Schlomo, "Listen to me.
"I am not going no party, I wait here.
"You, I am not going anyth--
You didn't, weren't going to go do drugs
with your friends?
No, no.
I am, I come in to my friend,
still my girlfriend and my father telling,
you going, you are going to a party,
and I am stay here.
What, are you crazy, meditation, what you want?
No, no, I here, I stay here.
And after this I am going Schlomo Shoham too much,
not much but--
A lot, you started
spending more time with Schlomo.
Yeah.
Yes.
And they go, "What are you,
"where is Schlomo going?"
I am going.
Right.
This is first my teacher.
He kind of became your guru of sort,
he was your guru?
For me, Schlomo is guru, yeah.
Ok, now is my friend.
The ego loves to said it, I did it for him, but no.
This kind of a healing that he brought to me as well.
So he went in to our group, and then he began to cry,
and because, I think, it's the first time in his life he saw
a judge who is human, who can touch you,
you can hug him, he smiles to you, he is open.
He can come close to me, there is no bench there
and all this kind of things that you have in the courtroom.
And, and we became friends since then,
and he has done a great, great job in work.
He left the criminal world,
and he is now teaching meditation himself.
And he's working with the kids,
with the troubled kids that have drug and violence problems.
So for him, also, kind of his healing is to...
give it to the next generation,
to give it to those guys who, unfortunately, are criminals
and to find a way how to (unintelligible) them,
how to heal them, how to hug them and give them love
and all what he needs so badly and I need so badly.
'Cause you have to know, judge, also,
is a very, very lonely place.
To sit there, most of the time in your life,
you can not even consult with somebody as what to do,
and you send people to jail.
You can not ask somebody, "What I give this guy,
"five years or four years?"
Nobody can help you with this.
And judges also need some support and hug and love,
and when I say it, when I teach judges,
I'm teaching intelligence,
emotional intelligence in the free to flow,
in the judges in Israel here.
Fabulous.
Yeah, it's a great thing.
And you see many judges were crying.
And it's amazing, because when they need support,
like we all need support,
we need love like you all need love,
and maybe it's time will come that we will,
we can drop this legal system and be more man to man
and we will not need this to protect us.
I hope time will come when we will be able to do it.
But for the ti-time for now, at least--
It exists.
supporting them,
it's very important.
Yes, and so, going back now to the,
the Committee for Future Generations
and what you're doing with this,
what is your vision?
Because you appear to be extremely forward thinking
and, in terms of your country,
and not only that, globally.
But what would you like to accomplish
with this chair, position?
Wow.
The main thing is, based on futurology,
that, if you want to prepare yourself to the future,
it's not enough to do an extrapolation
to see what will be the future.
For sure, we can not do it by extrapolation,
it's very linear, it's very, very superficial.
We can not even do it by all,
creating all the scripts, all the,
how do you say scripts?
All the...
Like a legal ma--
No, no.
Not a mandate, but a--
The, what?
Mission, like your missions--
Like you create all the films
that going to be in the future,
how you say it, all the...
Scripts?
It is scripts, yes.
Ok, so. (Regina laughs)
By creating all the scripts.
Because, you know, according to the amount of changes
that we are facing now,
almost everything that is reasonable will not happen.
Almost all what will happen, it's not reasonable.
And there's a futurology now, a method called Wild Card,
means that everything that will happen
is something that you can not predict it.
So we are facing a world of changes in all the fields.
It's in economy, it's in society, it's in environment...
Technology.
Technology, sure.
And the main way that I believe,
and I think that this is part also is
in holodynamics is that...
It called backcasting, it's like we can create our future.
We have first to put our visions there,
to prelive our future, to know where are we going,
to decide what is our common vision,
and what is amazing, you know,
that when many people sitting together, it's so similar.
Everybody has his own tune, on one hand,
but other, in the main things, we want the same.
We all want the same, we want a world of love,
a world of acceptance, a world of happiness,
a world of good food, of health, and to
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
So when the main thing that I believe is
that we can create it.
We can create it here in Israel, we can create it globally.
And it's only thing is to be total,
to put your total intention in creating it
and to create a consensus,
to create a, in a way, kind of love together,
harmony together,
with other people, with other...
with other people with other methods,
with other nations, with other...
All the streams that are going toward the future.
And, certainly, the most challenging situation is
at home, here in Israel, is your relationship between
the Palestinians and the Jews.
Certainly this is a big one.
A lot of contention, and, interestingly,
as we've talked to many people on both sides,
common people, people that have shops,
people in the street, just people.
They all say the same thing, without exception.
They say, "We've gotten along before,
"we can get along again, this is..."
And the Arabs will say, "I have Jews as my friends,
"they come to my home,"
and Jews will say, "I have Arabs that are friends
"and come to my home."
"It isn't the people, we don't want this.
"It's the politicians, they want this."
What, how do you respond to that?
First, I'm really sorry to upset you,
I don't think this is the main problem for Israel.
In a way, we are captive of the drama.
In a way, we are all dealing with this,
what we see, very superficially.
I think many, many other things
are really crucial to the future of Israel,
and we, unfortunately, don't see them even.
We forget them.
And we are captive of the drama,
and this is because of the...
First, because of the media,
'cause the media needs the drama to sell writing,
to sell media.
So, you create a drama.
And what is more dramatic and seems to create,
if you have a fight with two nations,
everybody is sure that he is right,
and then, when they are also killing each other,
it's really great, it's a lot of drama.
Headline news.
I'll tell you a story.
I'm going to Jerusalem every day,
from my home in Shoham,
in the street, in the road called 443,
and this road goes in the Palestinian places.
And all my friends are telling me,
"Are you crazy, it's a dangerous place to go every day.
"They going to kill you."
And what I did, I made a statistic.
How many people are getting killed in the other road,
that goes from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
Road number One, you know.
Every month, and how people are getting killed in this road.
So that's true that two people, all over the years,
that went through this road, 443, were killed by bullets.
But I can tell you that if I am getting killed,
I don't care what kind of arrow is hitting my head,
if it's a bullet or arrow from a car.
So if I really want to live, I have to go this road,
not the other road.
For this is just show you how we are captive of the drama,
because if you ask me, let's say, all of the people,
many of the people of Israel, it's more dangerous.
And we say, "Yes, it's more than dangerous."
Because they know more about it,
because if somebody is killed because of a bullet,
you see it on the headlines.
If somebody is killed by car accident,
you don't see it at all, or maybe--
What was the number on the other road
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem?
Enough.
How many people were killed there?
In Israel, I can tell you, in the terror in the last year,
you will have, I think, were killed in terror,
last year, even less, but...
something around 200 paople the whole year--
On both sides?
The Israelis.
The Israelis, ok.
And, on the other hand, almost,
more than 500 people are killed every year by car accidents.
And more than 1,000 people are dying every year
in Tel Aviv region because of air pollution.
So, like if you really want to live,
you have to look at what is really dangerous,
and what is really danger for our future,
and you can say easily that the air pollution
is more, more dangerous to the Israelis
than all the terror and everything else.
And not only for the Israelis,
because air pollution doesn't know borders.
You know, it goes also to the Palestinians,
and to the, go to Jordan, whatever.
And yet, still, there is a genuine issue
on another level in that the Palestinians
feel they can't move freely
Yes, yes.
and they're having
lots of obstacles to daily life.
How does this become addressed and overcome?
First, I, although all what I said,
it's still a painful world.
And it's true, it's true.
Because if we...
You know, even when you go, in Israel,
parties miflaga.
Miflaga means separating.
So, the party is also creating parts.
So, when you go to politics,
every politician is want to be unique,
and to show he is more unique that the others,
and he is so,
people, usually, when they come to politics,
they go to extremes.
The main...
Not the main, but, I think, one of the
greatest shows that you can have in the Israeli parliament,
after the people comes from the plane
and we were fighting each other, shouting,
there is a place that they are eating snakes together,
you know, and hugging each other
and smiling to each other and telling jokes.
Those that were, minute before,
like the greatest enemies in the world,
there is kind of a game that
politicians are playing this game.
And this game, unfortunately, that they're playing,
and they know it's not true,
when you see it day after day,
if you Palestinian or Arab or Israeli Arab or a Jew,
it-it's-it has to do, it does something to you,
to your personality, to your way of thinking.
That's something very, very deep.
And then you become more and more extreme yourself,
and this is the way the politicians are really
creating this suffering, creating this separation,
creating this words.
And, for me, it's easy, it's very easy.
If we can have a magic moment,
I wrote some, sometimes I write a poem about magic moments,
as a commissioner, maybe I'll show you it afterward.
If we can create a magic moment,
that in this magic moment one thing will happen.
The politicians will not disturb us,
to live normally,
it will happen.
And the critical message is there.
We have to know the critical message is there.
People understands the permits,
and more and more that, although things are...
We're in the end of the peace process,
you have to understand it.
When I was a child there was no peace with Egypt, Israel.
Jordan, Israel.
Syria was a real threat in Israel.
Lebanon was a real threat,
and Palestinians, for sure.
And nowadays, you know, there is peace with Egypt.
You can say it's not a hot peace, it's a cold peace,
but it's a peace.
For many, many years, there is peace with Jordan,
Syria is no longer a threat in Israel, Lebanon, also.
Terror will be, some years,
but I see it very clearly,
that we are in the end of a peace process,
it happens.
And when we will finish the problem with the Palestinians,
and, ok, we will fight about some acres here, acres there,
but it's very clear where going to be,
the border will be, you know.
There are little disputes on the corners, but.
So we are through.
The only thing is,
that usually, before you go to a new dimension,
there is a lot of noise.
So it's like, you know,
there is a true story about the pilots,
when they try to go beyond the...
border of the voice, how you say, the?
Sound barrier.
So, they were trying to do it,
and, all they time, when the plane
came to this kind of, this height of peace, to this speed,
it began to shake,
Shake, mm-hmm.
and to make like.
So everybody was sure, when we came to this moment,
the plane will crash.
Until one of the guys work brave enough
and he went through it, then it was silence.
So it's like, before you go to this new dimension,
everything is pushing you back,
pulling you back.
And then, time will come, and it will be easy,
it will be like nothing happened.
And without threat, without efforts,
it will be there, and peace will be here,
and then we'll have a huge, huge work to do,
how to cure the wounds and how to go beyond the hatred,
which will take time to educate a new generation.
But time is very close to begin to do this work.
Because the politician, you know,
they now can create a mess sometimes,
not all of them, some of them,
but the power of peace is stronger than everything else.
The wall's still going up,
it's still being built,
and, at the same time the wall's being built
and the noise is getting louder,
you're seeing that the signs of peace beyond
are truly there.
Am I understanding you correctly in that?
The noises are not being louder.
I'm living here, I can tell you.
Yeah.
This country is not dangerous country,
you have been now a month
and you see.
Oh, no, no, no.
I'm saying that the noise
Although, if you
you speak of
if you if you look
if you look at the, I think Tim told me
that his family called him and said that,
"It's ok for you, I am not in a danger
"because of the change of the government."
So you are here, you laugh at it,
but when you see it on the TV,
you see, maybe, a little danger there.
So, the noises are not louder.
It just...
I said that something,
maybe the noise is a bit louder before the change,
but, but it, it's already there.
Mm-hmm.
Terror is a problem.
And terror is built on hatred
and we have huge work on education,
and to really cure this hatred.
And this is right and this is a problem we face.
But the political problem, a war,
there is not a real threat here.
I was saying the wall.
Yeah, yeah, as to the war.
But the walls, I'm against the wall.
Yeah, they're real, and they're
confining.
On the other hand,
Yeah.
you know, when you have two children
and they're fighting together,
so first, you separate them.
And then, you give them time to relax.
And ten you can bring them together again.
So sometimes, I think if we are real,
we have to say to the guys, to the children there,
"Relax for a moment, or a year, or even two years."
And then I sure, I see how this walls are des-
will be destroyed destroyed like we destroyed them in Berlin
or wherever in this world.
I see how we can go down.
It takes time.
Maybe it will take two years,
maybe it will take three years, four years,
but not more than this.
It's not about generations.
We're in the end.
We have first to relax.
If we will have, as I told you about this, magic moment,
if we will have time, if we can relax,
not be threatened by the Palestinians,
and they will be there, not be threatened by us,
it's easy.
It's easy.
We will relax very, very,
I believe, very strongly on the human beings,
on the way, like it's written in the bible,
on the honest and enlightened way of human beings.
So we just need a little payeth, pace,
a little time, a little space, to really heal ourselves,
and then the love will come again,
and separation will follow the walls.
I'm going to ask you on more question.
I'm going out on a limb on this one.
Going out?
I'm going out on a limb, it's a big question.
Many people unders
Go for it,
feel free.
Yeah.
Many people are of the awareness and understanding
that, even beyond the politicians,
there are column families, entities,
powers with loads of influence and money around the globe,
and they're in most countries.
There are these families that pull the strings,
manipulate the markets, manipulate the politicians,
and basically say,
"This is how it's going to be next, guys."
There are different names for these families.
I'm, like you, seeing that there is a time coming
where there is going to be a shift.
What does it take to...
I can't say wrest or massage power
away from those who hold the resources,
the banking industry, the money, the power.
There's no indication these people, these entities,
are going to give this up voluntarily.
And yet, as long as they have it,
the idea is of domination and hoarding.
It's a greed, and it's a fear-based type of mentality.
How do you get the resources to flow
out of those hands into the rest of the hands?
First, I'm very sorry I have to answer it in English,
it's not so easy to me but I'll do it.
Yeah, you hit the point.
All what I said before was how to go beyond the fear,
beyond anxiety,
but I have to admit, looking forward, globally,
I've been now invited by the President of Germany,
and I went there and I talk,
was talking about what you asked me now,
about how to create a transformation in the world
in these terms.
Yes, for me, it's looking for the future,
it's more close to fear, anxiety,
the closest to fear anxiety is
topics that you are talking about.
Because this is the way of threating the world,
not, even not the terror.
Yeah, it is the threat, yes.
This what I see there, the threat,
And it based on fear, and it based on greed,
and it based on kind of a black hole
in the personalities of the whole world
of kind of a passion, not a positive passion.
A passion that, in this black hole,
the more you put in, the more black is the hole.
The more money, the more food,
the more whatever you put there,
and the globalization is a typical...
typical direction,
typical flow that the world is going through.
And what I know that the same way
that we have to deal with the threats,
in terror, in war, in everything,
is the same that we have to deal with here.
So first, we have to be able to accept it.
Accept means not to say it's ok,
but to look at it and to say,
first we have to be aware what is the situation.
This is the situation, it's not accepted,
it's to know this is the situation.
And when we know that there's a situation,
and we're really aware of what's going on,
by fighting those guys,
we will lose.
We can not fight, we can not put a war against them,
because we create not a war, and they're stronger than us.
They are really control huge part of the world.
And I say those guys is stereotype,
but it has to go through the countries.
Right.
So what I'm doing here in this country,
and we, as the Commissioner of Future Generations, we,
I'm dealing with those guys a lot,
we're dealing with the open spaces,
we want to preserve the open spaces
and we dealing with the people from the union state,
they have a lot of money.
We don't want them to be on the seashores,
so we fight with them.
Fight, don't fight, but we have to deal with.
We deal with the people from the food industry,
because we don't want them to sell poison to our children.
Real poison, like Coca-Cola,
they create the whole world addiction to sugar.
43% of the Coca-Cola,
so at 34% of Coca-Cola is sugar now,
and they're creating addiction.
And we are now going against them,
we said that will not be permitted to publish
and to advertise all those advertisement
to sell their products before nine o'clock,
so the children, at least, will not see it.
And the people from the chocolates, on one hand,
on the other hand is the people from
the electrochemical industries,
that they are putting a huge pollution is Israel,
you know, especially north of Israel, you know.
So, everywhere I go, I see these people.
So what I realized that the only way is to
see those people as human beings.
To be able to look at their eyes,
to talk to them as men to men,
although they are people very rich,
and usually what I say to them are,
"Listen, I know that you have now apartment to your son,
"and grandson, and grand-grand-grandson.
"Don't you think that you should really
"take care of your grand-grand-grandson
"and really be sure that you're going to have
"enough air to breath or clean water to drink, etcetera?"
Or when I'm telling them about their children already,
that they are now creating addiction
to their children, etcetera.
And I realized that there is a possibility
to create awareness in those tycoons' hearts.
They're human beings.
Everybody in this world who needs so much money
has a huge, huge hole in his spirit.
Otherwise you don't need so much money.
It's like, you know, how much, as big ego as you have,
you don't need so much money.
It's like, in the beginning you say it,
it's like with the politicians,
you say, "I going to be a member of a parliament,
"then I going to be happy."
And then you are there, and then you say,
"No, no, I'm not happy.
"So maybe I going to be a vice-minister.
"I going to be happy."
And you getting to be vice-minister,
and then you say, "I'm not happy."
Then you say, "I'll be minister, or Prime Minister."
And these are, we have some Prime Ministers a day,
even when they will be President of the World,
they will not be happy.
And you can see those people, the vicious people.
So there is something in their personality that needs love.
And the main thing is
that they don't know that they are lovable the way they are.
Like this is, I think, the main thing
that the whole world is going through.
If you know that you are lovable the way you are,
and I know that I'm lovable the way I am,
we can relax.
We can enjoy life.
Ok, money is not bad thing, it's an energy.
And you love money, it's ok.
But then, I won't be a chazzer.
You know what chazzer is?
Uh-uh.
Like a pig, I want more and more and more
and more and more.
Oh, yes,
pig, mm-hmm.
These, I will say,
like, those people you know,
they say we squeeze the lemon,
you know, it's like, it's really horrible.
And you don't need so much.
It's like you really don't need so much.
And when you don't need any control on other people,
and you don't need money for controlling other people,
then you can become humble, modest, and say,
"Ok, it's enough."
And I know, and also, in the workshops I lead,
when people really come to understand
that they are lovable the way they are,
then vicious goes down rapidly.
It's like you don't need, if it's ok,
if you're ok like the way you are,
and you have enough food to eat and to drink,
and you have them in your car or something,
you don't need any more.
And it's easy to understand it,
and I think this is the only way,
by really spreading love to really hand the world
from all this problem of the tycoons.
Was a long answer, what?
No, that's a, was a big question,
so I expected a long answer.
I think this is the point.
It's like the more love we're going to spread,
the more people will be, will rest,
will be less dominant, less controlling,
and more open to accept themselves.
Yes.
And so do you see this in the sense, almost,
in the sense of the unified field of consciousness?
Where the more people, the more critical mass of people
can flow into this place of knowledge
and acceptance of the situation,
and be able to perpetuate love in the face of that,
that, ultimately, this will seep into
the consciousness of the people
that are holding onto the assets
of the world?
I knew when
there was a war with Iraq,
my son asked me, "Listen,
"do you love me more than my sister?"
And I said, "There is no more or less in love."
You know, like the typical answer for it.
And he said, "Ok, now,
"you love me more than Saddam Hussein?"
from Iraq.
And I told him, "Listen,
"I am sure that if the mother of Saddam Hussein
"would have given him enough love,
"the whole world could save some of the wars."
And also the mother of George Bush, you know, and...
So, some, it's typical, you can see it.
I'm, I working with the politicians, you know,
Prime Minister, Minister, I see it daily.
You can see that if they could have understand
that they are lovable the way they are,
the whole scene was different.
The whole scene was different.
They could have come to work relaxed.
They could have come to say, "Ok,
"we love ourselves, it's ok, I don't need any other laws,
or any other wars, or any other whatever,
"to be more lovable.
"And this, in a way, will not give me more love anyway.
"So let's relax, let's try to enjoy life, to celebrate."
Not to, there's on guy, Trun Soo said in the east,
"There are the gold seekers, and the people who celebrate."
So, gold seeking, especially in this country,
is a huge, huge, sickness, it's a very big sickness.
Gold-seeking.
And so, for you, what's next for you?
Continue with Future Generations?
I don't know.
I had a zen master, teacher, he gave me his book,
the name of book was Only Don't Know.
So, I still don't know why I going to,
what I going to do when I going to be grown up.
We're going to be following Schlomo's work
in the Knesset in the future
and hope to interview him again at a later date.
Until next time, thanks for watching.